1. Code First
Armijn Hemel 
 
  Armijn Hemel has been using free software since 1994, when his
brother came home with a stack of ?oppies with an early version
of FreeBSD. A year later the switch to Linux was made and he has
been using Unix(-like) systems ever since then, both at home, during
his studies at Utrecht University and at work. Since 2005, Armijn
has been part of the core team of gpl-violations.org and has his own
consultancy (Tjaldur Software Governance Solutions) specialized in
detection and resolution of GPL license violations.
  自从1994年以来Armijn Hemel就一直使用免费的软件，那年他的兄弟带着一堆有着FreeBSD的早期版本的软盘回家。一年之后，开始转向Linux，从那以后他一直使用Unix系统，不论是在家里，还是当他在Utrecht University学习和工作的时候。从2005年开始，Armijn Hemel成为了反GPL组织中核心小组的一员，还有了他自己的顾问公司（Tjaldur Software Governance Solutions）专门从事发现和决断GPL许可证的侵权行为。
  
  Back in 1999 I was just getting started in FLOSS activism. I had 
already been using Linux and FreeBSD for a number of years then, 
but I was merely a user and I wanted to actually contribute some
thing back. The best way I thought for contributing back was to
write code. I could not ?nd any existing project I would be comfort
able working on, so I decided to start my own project. In hindsight
the reason why I did that was probably a mixture of various things.
One factor was insecurity whether or not my code was actually good
enough to be accepted in an existing project (I was, and still am, no
brilliant programmer) and with your own project that is not much
of an issue. The second reason is probably youthful arrogance.
  早在1999年，我就开始了我的FLOSS行动。那是我已经使用了Linux和FreeBSD有数年了，但是我只是一个用户，我想真正得为他们做出一些贡献。我认为最好贡献就是编写代码。我找不到任何可以让我舒服地为其工作的现有项目。所以我决定开始我自己的项目。事后回想起来我这样做的原因可能是因为这是一个很多东西的混合。有一个因素是不安全的，那就是我的代码是否足够好，能被现有的项目所接受（我以前是，现在仍然是，一个不够出色的程序员），不过用于自己的项目是没有太大的问题的。第二个理由可能就是青春时候的傲慢。
    
  My idea was to make a presentation program, which would fancy
more of the advanced (or, annoying, if you wish) features of Power
Point. Back in that time there was no OpenOffce.org and choices
were pretty limited to LaTeX and Magicpoint, which are more tai-
lored to delivering text content, than to showing whirly effects. I
wanted to make the program cross platform and back then I thought
Java would be the best choice for this. The idea was to make a pre-
sentation program, written in Java, which would have support for all
those whirly effects. I made up my mind and started the project.
  我的想法是做一个看起来更先进的演示程序（这里的whirly effects不理解）如果你想的话，或者是烦人的）关于简报的特点。早在没有 OpenOffice.org的那个时候，相对于LaTeX 和 Magicpoint那些为客户提供更加有针对性的文字内容，能更好的展现“回旋效果”（这里的的应用的选择是相当有限的。我像是程序跨平台运行，那是我以为Java会是最好的选择。当时的想法是在Java上做一个演示程序，可以支持这些所有的回旋效果。我下定了决心，然后开始了项目。
  
  Infrastructure-wise everything was there: there was a mailing list,
there was a website, there was source code control (CVS). But there
was no actual code for people to work on. The only things I had
were some ideas of what I wanted to do, an itch to scratch and the
right buzzwords. I actually wanted people to join in creating this
program and make it a truly collaborative project.
  所有的不错的基础设计就是：有一个邮件列表，有一个网站，有一个控制的源代码（CVS）。但是没有人们正在从事的现存代码，我拥有的唯一的事情就是我有一些我想要怎么做的想法，用正确的时髦话来说，就是皮毛而已。我真心希望人们可以参与这个程序的创造，使它变成一个真正的合作项目。
   
  I started making designs (with some newly acquired UML knowl-
edge) and sent them around. Nothing happened. I tried to get people
involved, but collaboratively working on a design is very hard (be-
sides, it is probably not the best way to create software in the ?rst
place). After a while I gave up and the project silently died, without
ever producing a single line of code. Every month I was reminded
by the mailing list software that the project once existed, so I asked
it to be taken offline.
  我于是开始做设计（用一些新获得的UML知识）然后发送给他们。什么都没有发生。我试图让人们参与进来，但是设计一个合作工作是非常困难的（但这可能不是创造一个软件的最快方法）。没过多久，我放弃了，这个项目也默默地死去了，没有产生一个单一的代码行。每个月我都会因为邮件软件的列表想起这个项目曾经存在过，所以我要求它处于脱机状态。
   
  I learned a very valuable, but somewhat painful, lesson: when you
announce something and when you want people to get involved in
your project, at least make sure there is some code available. It does
not have to be all ?nished, it is OK if it is rough (in the beginning
that is), but at least show that there is a basis for people to work with
and improve upon. Otherwise your project will go where many many
projects, including my own failed project, have gone: into oblivion.
  我学到了非常宝贵的东西，但是有一些是痛苦的课程：当你宣布一些事情，然后希望人们参与进来，至少确保有一些代码有用。它也不需要是完成品，即使是粗糙的也是可以的（在这个项目最开始的时候），但是至少展现出有可供人们一起工作和改进的基础。相反的，你的项目会变成许多的项目，包括我自己失败的项目，已经不要的，和被遗忘的。
  
 I eventually found my niche to help advance FLOSS, by making
sure that the legal underpinnings of FLOSS are tight through the gpl-
violations.org project. In retrospect I have never used, nor missed,
the whirly effects in presentation programs and found them to be
increasingly irritating and distracting too much from the content. I
am happily using LaTeX beamer and occasionally (and less happily)
OpenOffce.org/LibreOffce to make presentations.
  我终于找到了我合适的方法，用以改进FLOSS，确保使FLOSS通过严密的法律基础来通过反GPL项目。回想起来，我从来没有使用过，也不错过在演示程序中的回旋效果，发现它们变得越来越刺激并且从原本的内容中分散出了太多的东西。我很高兴的使用 LaTeX投影仪，偶尔不开心的为OpenOffce.org/LibreOffce做专题介绍。
