41. On being a Lawyer in FOSS
Till Jaeger
One thing upfront: I am not a geek. I never have been one, and have no intention of becoming one in the future. 
这里有一个前提：我不是个怪胎。而且从来不是，未来也没意向成为一个怪胎。

Instead, I am a lawyer. Most people who read this book probably tend to sympathize more with geeks than with lawyers.
 Nevertheless, I do not want to hide this fact. That the FOSS community is not necessarily fond of lawyers but busy developing software is something I did know about FOSS in early 1999 when our ways first crossed. But there were also quite a few things I did not know.
相反的，我是一个律师。看这本书的大多数人或许会倾向于对怪才倾注比对律师更多的同情。
不过我并不想隐藏这个事实：对于律师来说，自由开源软件社区似乎并不那么可爱，但是我确实通过自由开源软件社区认识到了软件的飞速发展，那是1999年出，我和自由开源软件社区刚刚相遇。不过仍有许多是我不知道的。

In 1999, while completing my doctoral thesis that focused on a classical copyright topic, I was assessing the scope of moral rights.
 In this context I spent a while pondering about the question of how moral rights of programmers are safe guarded by the GPL, which allows others to modify their programs. 
This is how I first got in contact with FOSS. At the time, “free" and “open" certainly had different meanings, but the difference was not worth arguing about in the world I was living in. 
However, since I was free to do what I was interested in and open to investigate new copyright questions, I soon found out that the two words do have something in common, that they are different and yet they are best used together...
1999年，在完成我那关注古典版权的博士论文时，我也评估了道德权利的范围。
在这样的情况下，我花了一点时间去想了想：在允许他人修改他们的程序的情况下，GPL是如何保护程序员的道德权利的。
这是我第一次接触自由开源软件社区的过程。那时候，“自由”和“开源”有着很不一样的意思，但是这区别在我生活的世界里并不值得被争论。
然而，直到我能够自由地做我感兴趣的事，被允许研究新的版权问题时，我很快发现这两个词有着共同点，他们确实是不一样的，但是他们在被同时使用时最有意义。

There are three things I wish I had known back then:
First, my technical knowledge, particularly in the field of software, was insufficient.
 Second, I did not really know the community and what mattered to the people who were part of it.
 Last but not least, I did not know much about foreign jurisdictions back then. It would have been useful to know all that from the beginning.
Since that time, I have learned a fair bit, and just as the community is happy to share its achievements I am happy to share my lessons
这三件事我一直希望我从前就能知道：
第一件：我的技术知识，特别是软件方面的技术知识尤其不足。
第二件：我不是真正地了解社区，不能真正地了解作为其中的一部分，对人们来说意味着什么。
下一件但不是最后一件：我不是非常了解外国的司法管辖区。
如果能在一开始就知道这些，这会很有帮助！
从那时起，我就学到了一些公平的东西：就像社区乐于分享他的成就，我也乐于分享我的经验。
